,Title,Content,Site-Name,Sector
0,"
      Some contractors face delays of up to two months, as more workers fall sick due to warmer weather
  ","

      Singapore
  
 To cope with the heat, one company is monitoring the water intake of its workers through group chats while another has in place two mandatory breaks daily. Foreign workers at a construction site in Singapore. (File photo: AFP/Roslan Rahman) SINGAPORE: Some contractors are facing delays of up to two months in their projects, as more workers are calling in sick due to the recent soaring temperatures.  The temperature hit 37 degrees Celsius in Ang Mo Kio last Saturday (May 13), equalling a 40-year record for the highest daily maximum temperature here, according to the National Environment Agency (NEA).  The last time such a high was recorded was on Apr 17, 1983, in Tengah. NEA added that several locations across Singapore also recorded temperatures exceeding 36 degrees Celsius last Saturday. To beat the heat, many contractors are ramping up measures, such as allowing their workers to have more rest and ensuring they also have plenty of water. For these workers, long hours in the sun are part and parcel of the job. However, the higher temperatures are taking a toll on their health. Migrant worker Selvarasu Senthil, who fell sick last week, said: “I went to see a doctor. The doctor said I’ve been exposed too much to the sun, so I have a headache, fever, and feel faint.” At Hitomo Construction, between 10 and 30 per cent of workers have called in sick each day for the past few weeks. Its chief executive officer Serene Pan believes more workers are falling ill due to the scorching heat.  “We have seen an increase in the number of medical leave taken. So in terms of schedules, timeline, we seem to have taken a hit,” she said.   “And I think schedule wise, probably maybe a month or two months of delay due to the hot weather.” The company said these delays could see profit margins shrinking by 10 per cent. Meanwhile, Arc Urban Services is actively monitoring water intake of its workers through group chats, and providing amenities to make sure they do not fall sick. “We recently ordered some outdoor portable fans that the men can use outside if it gets too hot,” said Mr Isaac Ho, project manager at Arc Urban Services.  “And we also have these big tentage shelters that the men can fold and bring to whichever site they go to provide them a sheltered area.” To help firms manage heat stress, companies can consult the Workplace Safety and Health Council's WSH Guidelines. These include recommendations to provide a shaded rest area and ensure workers are properly hydrated. Straits Construction, for instance, has mandated two scheduled breaks for workers a day. But the company said workers too, need to speak up when they feel unwell. “They have to be wary of the situation. They have to keep themselves fit and safe,” said Straits Construction executive director and chief operating officer Kenneth Loo, adding that workers should look out for their peers and report signs of heatstroke. “The individual will have to take responsibility on their part. Of course, as an employer, we have to make sure that they do it in a sense. But I think at the end of the day, they need to stand up if they feel unwell.”",channelnewsasia,Construction
1,"
      Construction firms grapple with workers’ housing as dorm rental rates soar
  ","

      Singapore
  
 While larger firms are dealing with accommodation issues by building their own temporary quarters, some smaller players are struggling with finding new housing solutions. A worker enters through a gantry at a temporary housing facility located at a construction site. SINGAPORE: Soaring rental rates at dormitories have forced some construction firms to find alternative housing for their workers. Some larger contractors said they are addressing the lodging shortage with Construction Temporary Quarters (CTQs) – worker housing located within a construction site or parts of buildings still under construction. However, smaller players said they are struggling with finding solutions. Some are sub-renting from their counterparts while others are looking at substitute living quarters such as condominiums. One business utilising such CTQs is United Tec Construction, which has built accommodation on its construction premises for its employees. The company said this option offers numerous perks, including proximity, productivity, and workers’ welfare. “These temporary dorms at job sites are custom-made for your requirements,” said the firm’s founder Allan Tan. “They have many advantages as the workers don't have to wake up so early to commute. Even after work, they have more time to rest. I strongly encourage the industry to adopt this solution.” Mr Tan said he has observed a 40 per cent spike in commercial dormitory rental since the COVID-19 pandemic, adding the increase is “unrealistic and has a huge impact on construction costs in the whole industry”. He said his company saves more than S$80,000 (US$58,700) every month housing its workers on-site, instead of commercial dormitories, even after factoring in the costs of building the CTQs. Employees also enjoy amenities such as in-room air-conditioning, gym and free Wi-Fi. However, the process of having on-site living quarters takes over three months to complete, including seeking approvals and clearance from relevant authorities such as the Ministry of Manpower (MOM) and the National Environment Agency (NEA), he said, adding he hopes the procedure can be shortened to better facilitate housing options for the firms. Mr Tan acknowledged that while bigger firms have the advantage of building their own accommodation, smaller construction businesses such as subcontractors working on the same projects cannot afford to do the same. Most are unable to build their own temporary living quarters as they often do not have permanent projects. He said that while he was able to support some of his subcontractors by helping to house a number of their workers in his on-site dormitories in the past, recent housing requirements by the authorities mean his hands are tied. “It's very difficult for us to support them. I would love to, frankly speaking, they are part of the productivity journey and the team in the construction process. But as a result (of the new law), the space required (for living) is bigger and therefore the capacity per job site has been reduced,” said Mr Tan. As of April this year, the Foreign Employee Dormitories Act (FEDA) – which raises standards and living conditions for more than 1,500 dormitories, mandates minimum space per resident, maximum room occupancy, cleanliness and ventilation, as well as the adequate provision of amenities. Construction firm OS Builders, which hires about 20 foreign workers, said it was recently forced to relocate its employees after rent at its dormitory skyrocketed without prior warning. The company said the commercial dormitory, which it has been renting for the past eight years, used to cost S$2,500 for a room for 12 people in 2021. Last year, the price climbed to S$3,500. This year, the owners asked for a rental fee of S$6,600 – more than 2.5 times the amount two years ago. “This is a huge problem for us. If we have confirmed construction projects and income, then it may offset some of these additional costs. But if we have fewer jobs, then SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises) like us are in trouble,” said the firm’s director Nge Su Yong. “On top of accommodation, we still have to pay workers’ salaries and other expenses. We might face a shortage in funds.” The company found a condominium space for about S$4,000 per month to accommodate six employees. However, the firm is uncertain if the solution is sustainable. “We don’t have a solution. If we want projects, we need workers. If we hire workers, we have to deal with all these (accommodation) problems and expenses. If we are unable to handle all these overheads, we face the threat of closing down,” Mdm Nge told CNA in Mandarin. The lack of living quarters within their budget has led OS Builders to delay the arrival of four new foreign workers. “For many of us SMEs, business has not been smooth as of late due to all these hike in expenses. For example, workers’ wages go up but the projects we get do not give us more revenue. Still, I must still be responsible for my workers and my business, I can’t just give up,” she said.",channelnewsasia,Construction
2,"
      More Singapore companies looking to meet Central Asia’s growing consumer demand
  ","

      Asia
  
 Central Asia's young and growing population offers opportunities for businesses to gain an early-mover advantage, especially in areas like urban infrastructure, technology and innovative consumer products. Singapore-listed food manufacturing and distribution company Food Empire’s coffee products can be found in stores and supermarkets across Kazakhstan. ASTANA, Kazakhstan: Central Asia – home to several landlocked countries – may not be the most accessible market for Singapore companies looking to expand, but the region’s lower profile and growing consumer market offers new opportunities.  Enterprise Singapore (EnterpriseSG) said Central Asia's young and growing population can give businesses an early-mover advantage, especially in areas like urban infrastructure, technology and innovative consumer products.  But despite Central Asia's strategic and resource-rich location, it may still take some work to get Singapore firms that are looking to diversify overseas to venture into the region, said observers.  “I think it's still a region that not many people think of straight away. Many Singapore companies, naturally, will still think of countries in the nearby regions, and rightfully so because these are familiar regions and these are also growth regions, especially South Asia,” said Mr Clarence Hoe, executive director for Americas and Europe at EnterpriseSG.  “But this is where Enterprise Singapore comes in. We really look at finding the new areas which are growing, identify them and share them with our companies. And this helps to provide new markets, not just as a growth opportunity, but also as a market for diversification.” Kazakhstan, one of the largest economies in Central Asia, is Singapore's largest trading partner in the region, with more than 30 Singapore companies in the country. There are also over 20 firms operating in neighbouring Uzbekistan.  EnterpriseSG said it is organising seminars and trade missions for Singapore firms to connect and collaborate with partners in Central Asia, as part of efforts to help more local firms expand and enhance their supply chain resilience.  Some businesses that have expanded into Central Asia told CNA that their efforts are paying off. Among them is Singapore-listed food manufacturing and distribution company Food Empire, which saw an opportunity nearly 30 years ago.  Today, the company’s coffee products can be found in stores and supermarkets across Kazakhstan.  “Our business has been growing year upon year,” said Mr Anil Bhuwania, business head of Central Asia at Food Empire.  “Over the last four years, in terms of volume, our market share has grown from 67 per cent to 73 per cent (for) coffee mixes.” The company is now looking to add tea products into the mix, especially tea with milk. However, logistics and transportation remain a challenge. “We need to find alternative routes, either via China or sometimes via Georgia, and see how the goods can be transported into Kazakhstan because it's a landlocked country,” said Mr Bhuwania. Meanwhile, tour agency Aveneer DMC has been bringing visitors from Singapore to Kazakhstan for the past eight years.  The agency said interest in travel to the country has been growing, especially from businesses. “Over the years, we have had so many requests all over,” said Ms Queenie Lee, director at Aveneer DMC.  “We have had businesses in F&B (food and beverage), and within that like alcohol companies, and we have had real estate developers coming in. We've had restaurant tourists coming in that want to set up in Kazakhstan.”",channelnewsasia,Consumer Goods
